#summary Release note for AnroidQuery.

= Release Notes =

==0.23.3 BETA==

Feature:
  * Round corner image support [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/ImageLoading#Rounded_Corner doc]
  * Image aspect ratio anchor support [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/ImageLoading#Anchor doc]

Bug Fix:
  * Fix error response gzip encoding issue when response is not 2xx
  * Fix shouldDelay incorrectly return true when down-sampled and rounded corner images are memory cached
  * Fix inputstream types closed prematurely for synchronous requests
  * Add warnings to log for common mistakes such as calling ajax without setting response type or calling ajax with finished activity.

==0.22.10 ==

Feature:
  * Add image fallback type PRESET
  * Add ajax type inputstream
  * Add ajax type file
  * Add auth type for service Google Doc List
  * Add file download [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI?ts=1335460094&updated=AsyncAPI#File_Download doc]
  * Add automatic encoding detection for String ajax type [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Encoding_(BETA) doc]
  * Add Activity.setProgressBarIndeterminateVisibility() support for .progress() to show ajax progress.
  
Bug Fix:
  * Fix shouldDelay issue with ListView with custom headers
  * File name is now sent with multipart post with file parameter

Build:
  * The auth plugin will be part of the "full" jar build instead to reduce the number of builds




==0.21.5 ==

Feature:
  * Automatic gzip 
  * Add expandable list adapter support.
  * Add twitter auth token retrieve method.
  * Add longClicked methods similar to clicked.
  * Add shouldDelay method for Gallery, ExpandableListView.
  * Add more efficient shouldDelay method for ListView
  * Add getToken() to Facebook handle.
  * Add getToken() and getSecret() to TwitterHandle.

GZip is automatically on for all ajax calls. No settings required. Use the setGZip(false) method to disable gzip.

Deprecated old ListView should delay method.

==0.20.5==

Feature:
  * Support XmlPullParser ajax type [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI?ts=1328249717&updated=AsyncAPI#XML_Dom doc]
  * Http request cookies [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Http_Headers doc]
  * Http response cookies [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Http_Headers doc]
  * Http response headers [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Http_Headers doc]
  * Support progress dialog for ajax progress [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Progress doc]
  
Update:
  * ajax() http post now takes type Map<String, ?> including the old type Map<String, Object>
  * http multipart post now supports header and cookie


==0.19.3==

New Feature:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Long_URL_(2000+_length) Long URL (2000+ length)]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/Authentication Facebook, Twitter, BasicAuth]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/ErrorHandling Uncaught Error Handler]
  * Better GoogleChart image url support


==0.18.5==

Fixed fallback issue with AQuery.GONE and AQuery.INVISIBLE type.

==0.18.3==

New Feature:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/Authentication Google Service Authentication]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/Service In-App Version Checking]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI?ts=1325587598&updated=AsyncAPI#Http_POST_(Custom_Entity) Custom HttpEntity]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/ImageLoading?ts=1325588160&updated=ImageLoading#Network_Failure_Recovery Image Loading - Network Failure Recovery]

Added methods:
  * inflate
  * dismiss
  * getGallery
  * parent


Bug fix:
  * Padding is now supported for image loading with aspect ratio.




== 0.16.12==


Added methods:
  * getText
  * getSelectedItem
  * webImage
  * block (AjaxCallback)

New Feature:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/ImageLoading#Zoomable_Web_Image Zoomable Web Image]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Http_POST_(Multipart) Http Multipart POST]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/android-query/wiki/AsyncAPI#Activity_Finished_Detection Activity Finish Detection]


== 0.15.7==

Changes:

  * Remove support for image button.
  * Optimize memory usage and speed when bitmap is memory cached
  * Invalidate memcache when network is restored from previous images fetch network errors
  * Optimize memory usage for ajax requests

Added methods:
  * recycle
  * encoding (AjaxCallback)

Fix:
  * Issue where invalidate throws null pointer exception when url is not cached

  

== 0.14.12 ==

10/5/2011

Added methods:
  * setSelection(int position)
  * invalidate(String url)
  * AQUtility.setCacheDir(cacheDir);
  * progress(View view)
  * id(View view)
  * getTag(int id)
  * animate(int animId)
  * animate(int animId, AnimationListener listener)
  * animate(Animation anim)
  * getCachedImage(int resId)
  * image(Bitmap bm, float ratio)
  * shouldDelay(View convertView, ViewGroup parent, String url, float velocity)
  * makeCachedFile(String url, String filename)
  * click
  * longClick
  

Added support for JSONArray.class as ajax response type. Added methods to support easier coding with ViewHolder pattern. Added way to specify cache directory (can be on SDCard). Added way to invalidate a cached url. Added method to detect list scroll speed to delay loading an list item resources.

Thanks contribution from:
marcosbeirigo,
Sangmin Ryu, neocoin

== 0.13.5 ==

9/27/2011

Added methods:
  * progress
  * getSpinner
  * Object getSelectedItem()
  * itemSelected(Object handler, String method)
  * itemSelected(OnItemSelectedListener listener)
  * cache(String url, long expire)

Added progress method to show loading progress. Added cache method to recache an url. Added various methods to support Spinner operations.

== 0.12.5 ==

9/20/2011

Fix issue where BitmapAjaxCallback custom callback are not invoke when image is cached in memory.

== 0.12.2 ==

9/16/2011

Added XmlDom class for simple and easy XML parsing. "ajax" methods now support XmlDom.class as content type.

== 0.11.5 ==

9/14/2011

Added method:
  * ajax(String url, Class type, long expire, AjaxCallback callback)
  * ajax(String url, Class type, long expire, Object handler, String callback)

Added file caching capability to ajax requests.

Added Google Service authentication method (BETA).

== 0.10.3 ==

9/8/2011

Added method:

  * image(String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache, int targetWidth, int fallbackId, Bitmap preset, int animId, float ratio)

Added dynamic or predefined aspect ratio feature for image loading.

== 0.9.2 ==

9/6/2011

Fixes:

  * Fix issue where api level 4 cannot compile with AjaxCallback due to use of AccountManager

== 0.9.1 ==

9/3/2011

Added method:

  * width(int dip)
  * height(int dip)
  * image(String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache, int targetWidth, int fallbackId, Bitmap preset, int animId)
  * getCachedImage(String url)
  * getCachedImage(String url, int targetWidth)

Add image loading function with "preloaded" image option and image animation.

== 0.8.2 ==

8/4/2011

Added method:

  * ajax(AjaxCallback callback)
  * ajax(String url, Map<String, Object> params, Class type, AjaxCallback callback)
  * ajax(String url, Map<String, Object> params, Class type, Object handler, String callback)

New ajax methods using the http post method.

== 0.6.1 ==

7/21/2011

Updated method:

  * image(String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache, int targetWidth, int resId)

Added fallback options to make image view invisible or gone.

  * image(File file, int targetWidth)
  * image(File file, boolean memCache, int targetWidth, BitmapAjaxCallback callback)

Added image loading from file with down sampling.

== 0.5.1 ==

7/16/2011

Added method:

  * AQuery(Context context)
  * id(int... path)
  * image(String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache, int targetWidth, int resId)
  * image(String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache, int targetWidth, int resId, BitmapAjaxCallback callback)
  * setOverScrollMode9
  

== 0.3.3 ==

7/8/2011

Added method:

  * checked (compound button, checkbox)
  * getChecked (compound button, checkbox)
  * clickable (view clickable)

== 0.3.1 ==

7/2/2011

Added method:

  * textChanged (listen to change of edit text)
  * getCachedFile (get previously cached file by ajax requests) 

== 0.2.3 ==

6/13/2011

Optimized with proguard to reduce size.

Added methods:

  * ajax(java.lang.String url, java.lang.Class type, Object handler, String callback)


== 0.2.0 ==

6/8/2011

Added methods:

  * getContext
  * ajax
  * ajaxCancel
  * image(java.lang.String url)
  * image(java.lang.String url, boolean memCache, boolean fileCache) 


== 0.1.0 ==

Added methods:

  * getProgressBar
  * getButton
  * getCheckBox
  * getListView
  * getGridView
  * getWebView
  * clicked(OnClickListener listener)
  * itemClicked(OnItemClickListener listener)